Hey guys welcome back to the Corps.
OK.
So we just spent a whole lot of time searching for ideas through Google and through read it went through
Corra cetera et cetera.
Now if you really put in that time to find content and look for ideas that's awesome congratulations
it's really going to help you out.
But I'm sure as you listing out these ideas you're probably wondering or hearing a voice in the back
of your head saying how am I going to make sense of all this stuff when I'm done looking for ideas how
do I know which of these are the best.
Well I'll tell you what I do.
It's something many other writers and bloggers do as well.
Now as you record these ideas and one more thing to each item to help you figure out which items or
which ideas should get covered first what that is a very basic ranking system.
Now we've got ranking systems all around us.
We have letter grades from Ada for number grades from 0 to 100.
We've got five star ratings on Amazon.
There's thumbs up versus thumbs down.
So when I say ranking system that's really all I mean.
But now how exactly can we apply that to our content ideas.
Well our best ideas should be bring higher than the not as good ones.
Right.
And if we could see that at a glance on our content ideas spreadsheet or even better if we could sort
by that ranking and see what appears at the top then well we'll know which ideas on our big list are
the best ones and probably the next ones we should start working on.
OK.
Since this is a great idea.
Thank you very much.
Let's figure out a ranking system that you can use for your list.
What are some ways we can evaluate our content ideas.
Well here is something that we can start with.
First thing I want to start with is a rating of relevance relevance meaning would our audience care
about this specific idea.
Is there a need we can satisfy with it our readers and falles will only check something out if it's
relevant for them.
So which is it.
Is it a yes.
Is it a no or is it a maybe.
Yes great keep that idea if it's a maybe well then maybe you need to think more about the idea or tweak
it a little bit to make it more relevant and tell it to solve it.
Yes but if the answer is no Once you've actually sat down and kind of toiled on it you should probably
remove that idea from your list or at least stain it with the red No so that later on you know not to
touch it.
Getting people to read stuff they're not interested in isn't worth your time or theirs.
So basically this rating system is going to be there.
Will they give a meter.
For example if your audience is into say tricking out cars the power tools and the materials they can
buy you might think of a blog post idea like how to trick out your car for under $500 and that would
be on target but maybe your friend tells you this guy posted a video on YouTube about tricking out his
1992 Volkswagen minivan.
OK.
And it's a pretty cool video so you wonder should I write about tricking out things besides just cars.
It might be worth it or it could be like that in-between zone and maybe now it just really depends.
Is your focus on tricking out things that people ride.
Or is it tricking out cars specifically what really comes down to you is what your audience is expecting.
And if they're not expecting this well will they still be cool with it.
Now here's one bonus to consider when you're thinking about relevance.
If your audience likes this idea then maybe other blogs would like it as well.
So some of these ideas can turn into guest posting opportunities.
And this idea kind of reminds me of another way to evaluate your ideas.
So in the next column What's the value in our ideas on originality.
Now if you have a truly unique idea that your audience would be interested in that's great.
Like maybe nobody with a tricking out cars type blog is talking about tricked out Volkswagens or other
odd unique models so in that sense that's pretty original.
Maybe it's worth writing about that then.
But you know a lot of the ideas you come up with no matter what industry you're in have probably already
been covered either entirely or at least partially in some way and that is perfectly fine it absolutely
does not mean you shouldn't write about it.
Part of evaluating ideas right here is to see if you have an original angle that you can bring to the
topic.
So consider your idea in that way.
Do you have your own interesting angle that hasn't been done before.
Fill it out just like the other one with yes no or maybe.
Now if the answer is no well then you need to think about it.
Why should you consider this idea.
Is it because 10 other people have already written about it lately and you don't want to be left out
or are you looking to bring in some web traffic and this topic seems like a safe one.
Those are not bad reasons to write about something.
But coming up with that original take on a topic will give your content a better chance of being memorable.
At least ten other blogs may have written about the latest Google algorithm update but then you realize
well maybe none of them have noted the benefits specific or let's say local business owners who have
their businesses listed on Google.
So even though you might cover some of the same ground you're giving it a perspective that others didn't
focus on.
And if there is an audience for it you'll get some readers out of it.
There's another way to rank your ideas.
I wanted to mention here and that's resources.
Can you actually create the content based on this idea as in.
Do you have the resources do you have the knowledge the experience the time the technical or creative
skills to pull this off.
Consider the subject matter now if you know as you backwards and forwards then you don't really need
to consult with an expert to see if what you're writing about on the latest Google algorithm change
is accurate or not.
But if you want to write about a topic you don't know very well then you'll need to do more research
maybe get it reviewed by someone else senior to think about whether or not you can really do it.
If your idea is creating videos or Photoshopping something awesome or making a sweet infographics do
you have the video editing or image creation and editing skills that you need to pull this off.
If your idea is to produce say like a comprehensive Ultimate Guide style ebook about email marketing
that social media geeks and other marketers would download well.
Do you have the time to write that because ultimate guides take a lot of time.
In other words can you afford to sync all of your time into that one huge project when you could be
producing a dozen blog posts instead.
So ranking your idea under resources is really ranking how easily you could throw together this idea
and a reasonable amount of time without any significant outside help.
And maybe the measurement here isn't a yes no or maybe but more of a spot where you list exactly what
you would need instead.
Like need photoshop help or need expert review or if you're all good just put nothing needed.
So for those first three items we can go in and add these fields right into our spreadsheet or whatever
we've been using a tracker ideas.
Remember that spreadsheet of ideas we came up with a while back or two or three years ago.
Go right in and put in the columns for relevance.
Originality and resources.
Then you can add values for each idea.
Yes no maybe you can do it from a scale to 1 to 10.
Whatever way you want to score these things is up to you but I generally recommend keeping it simple
because once you have 50 of these things it just gets muddled.
Yes or no is the way I do it it's really easy to understand now.
So far we've been ranking these ideas with our audience in mind and that's something you have to do
because this content is for them.
But we have to also consider our own needs and this gives us another way to rank each idea.
I ask this question where will this idea help us accomplish our goals.
If you're building a business or trying to sell a product you probably have goals and all this content
you're creating should help you get to those goals.
Right.
So what is it youre trying to accomplish with all of this content.
Are you trying to increase your sales of your product.
Are you trying to get more downloads for your app.
Do you just want people to follow you and read everything you post.
Now these big goals you have should help guide the ideas you come up with and help you choose which
ideas to develop.
So when we get here to the part where we're evaluating our ideas.
The question is will each idea help us accomplish those goals that we outlined previously and really
which goals will they support.
Specifically.
Well let's say you're in the business of email marketing consulting.
You know you design emails you know Chimp and Emma and all the other email tools you can get people
started you can.
I don't know give them advice and so on and so on.
So maybe your big goal is to sell your consulting services and by blogging about related email topics
you're hoping you can reach other topics like creating general awareness generating leads and signing
up maybe some new clients.
So hey one idea that comes to mind that might support those goals is to write a big ultimate guides
style ebook about email marketing something people can reference download share with others and maybe
by reading it they realize oh hey this guy or gal knows what they're talking about and maybe we should
just hire him to build our e-mail strategy for us that works for me.
So if we were keeping a spreadsheet of our ideas and this big ebook idea was on the list we could put
in something under the goal column something like downloads or leads.
That's what we're hoping to get from this piece of content.
Now this is where it comes in handy as you're planning your content like in your calendar.
You can look at these different goals to mix and match so you're always supporting your various goals.
But I mean as you might have 10 great ideas that would be perfect for generating leads but if you already
have let's say a lot of leads you can only process so many You're getting swamped with them.
Maybe you don't have time for new business and you really should focus on creating content instead establishes
credibility or help you convert sales or something like that.
Well the next ideas you pick are ones meant to help you generate leads well then you're really not helping
yourself if you know your goals for each piece of content you can pick the ones you want for a certain
time or spread them all out so you've basically got a nice balance to what you're creating.
All right so one more thing before I go.
Let's say you start going through your list and you discover a lot of my ideas are not actually a good
fit.
In fact some aren't very original or relevant.
Some are just terrible.
Well there's nothing wrong with generating ideas even if they're bad.
A lot of times you have to go through the bad ones to figure out what will actually work.
Try not to get discouraged by it all.
It can be pretty challenging process but if you use the tools and techniques covered in the videos for
this one your chances of finding ideas will be good.
And by evaluating them in the ways we just discussed you'll be prepared to create some great stuff.
More likely more consistently.
All right you got it.
I'll sign off and see the next lecture.